README.rst, before:

.. image:: example.gif

``barva`` is an audio visualizer that pulses the background of your terminal.

`See it in action (with audio) in this Reddit post.
<https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/ha9q9q/oc_audio_visualizer_that_pulses_the_background_of/>`_

.. contents:: Navigation:
   :backlinks: none

============
Installation
============

---
AUR
---

``barva-git`` `is available in AUR <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/barva-git/>`_.

------
Manual
------

``barva`` depends on PulseAudio and its headers:

* On Debian (Ubuntu, Mint, ...) you need ``pulseaudio`` and ``libpulse-dev`` packages.
* On Fedora (CentOS, ...) you need ``pulseaudio`` and ``pulseaudio-libs-devel`` packages.
* On Arch (Manjaro, ...) you need just ``pulseaudio`` package.

Then just run ``make`` in the project's root directory (GCC is required).
The binary is named ``barva``. You can move it to somewhere in your ``$PATH``.

=====
Usage
=====

You need to specify the name of PulseAudio source from which ``barva`` should read audio.
It's done via ``BARVA_SOURCE`` environmental variable. The common case is that you want
``barva`` to monitor your default audio sink. It can be accomplished with the help of
``pa-get-default-monitor.sh``:

* If you have built ``barva`` manually, ``cd`` into its directory and run
  ``export BARVA_SOURCE=$(./scripts/pa-get-default-monitor.sh)``.
* If you have got ``barva`` from AUR, run
  ``export BARVA_SOURCE=$(/usr/share/barva/pa-get-default-monitor.sh)``.

Then run ``barva`` or ``./barva`` while listening to some music. The background of
the terminal should turn black and pulse towards white. Press ``Ctrl+C`` to exit.

You can send ``barva`` to the background and switch to another CLI program e.g Vim:
just run ``barva &``. To terminate barva, run ``killall barva`` or some other equivalent.

=============
Customization
=============

Customization is done via environmental variables (no CLI yet):

+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Variable                | Default value           | Description                   |
+=========================+=========================+===============================+
| ``BARVA_SOURCE``        | ``NULL``                | The PulseAudio source from    |
|                         |                         | which audio is read           |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_BG``            | ``#000000``             | The background color of the   |
|                         |                         | terminal                      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_TARGET``        | ``#FFFFFF``             | The color "towards which" the |
|                         |                         | background pulses.            |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_FPS``           | ``60``                  | The number of times the       |
|                         |                         | background is updated per sec.|
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_OUTPUT_FORMAT`` | ``TTY`` if ``stdout`` is| The format of output.         |
|                         | a tty, ``HEX`` otherwise|                               |
|                         |                         | * ``TTY``: change the         |
|                         |                         |   background of the terminal. |
|                         |                         | * ``HEX``: output the color in|
|                         |                         |   hex, one per line.          |
|                         |                         | * ``BSPWM``: change the border|
|                         |                         |   color of windows under BSPWM|
|                         |                         |   .                           |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+

===============
Tips and tricks
===============

----------
Compositor
----------

If you use "raw" Xorg without a DE, consider running a compositor like ``picom`` or
``compton``. It eliminates tearing, thus making ``barva`` smoother.

---
FPS
---

The CPU usage of ``barva`` is roughly proportional to the value of ``BARVA_FPS``.
Therefore, lowering the value is the first thing to try to improve performance
(please report such cases, ``barva`` is supposed to be reasonably fast *everywhere*).

If you have a high refresh-rate monitor, you may try making ``BARVA_FPS`` bigger:
the appearance may improve (at the cost of CPU cycles, though).

-----
Pywal
-----

Pywal generates a nice ``~/.cache/wal/colors.sh`` file that you may use to set
the colors used by ``barva``

.. code-block:: bash

    source ~/.cache/wal/colors.sh  
    export BARVA_BG=$background BARVA_TARGET=$foreground
    barva &

---
Vim
---

To let ``barva`` pulse the background of Vim, use a colorscheme that doesn't change
the default terminal background color e.g ``peachpuff``.
``termguicolors`` (NeoVim) must be off, too.

Commit message:

Add a section on the scripts to the README.

README.rst, after:

.. image:: example.gif

``barva`` is an audio visualizer that pulses the background of your terminal.

`See it in action (with audio) in this Reddit post.
<https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/ha9q9q/oc_audio_visualizer_that_pulses_the_background_of/>`_

.. contents:: Navigation:
   :backlinks: none

============
Installation
============

---
AUR
---

``barva-git`` `is available in AUR <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/barva-git/>`_.

------
Manual
------

``barva`` depends on PulseAudio and its headers:

* On Debian (Ubuntu, Mint, ...) you need ``pulseaudio`` and ``libpulse-dev`` packages.
* On Fedora (CentOS, ...) you need ``pulseaudio`` and ``pulseaudio-libs-devel`` packages.
* On Arch (Manjaro, ...) you need just ``pulseaudio`` package.

Then just run ``make`` in the project's root directory (GCC is required).
The binary is named ``barva``. You can move it to somewhere in your ``$PATH``.

=====
Usage
=====

You need to specify the name of PulseAudio source from which ``barva`` should read audio.
It's done via ``BARVA_SOURCE`` environmental variable. The common case is that you want
``barva`` to monitor your default audio sink. It can be accomplished with the help of
``pa-get-default-monitor.sh``:

* If you have built ``barva`` manually, ``cd`` into its directory and run
  ``export BARVA_SOURCE=$(./scripts/pa-get-default-monitor.sh)``.
* If you have got ``barva`` from AUR, run
  ``export BARVA_SOURCE=$(/usr/share/barva/pa-get-default-monitor.sh)``.

Then run ``barva`` or ``./barva`` while listening to some music. The background of
the terminal should turn black and pulse towards white. Press ``Ctrl+C`` to exit.

You can send ``barva`` to the background and switch to another CLI program e.g Vim:
just run ``barva &``. To terminate barva, run ``killall barva`` or some other equivalent.

=============
Customization
=============

Customization is done via environmental variables (no CLI yet):

+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Variable                | Default value           | Description                   |
+=========================+=========================+===============================+
| ``BARVA_SOURCE``        | ``NULL``                | The PulseAudio source from    |
|                         |                         | which audio is read           |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_BG``            | ``#000000``             | The background color of the   |
|                         |                         | terminal                      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_TARGET``        | ``#FFFFFF``             | The color "towards which" the |
|                         |                         | background pulses.            |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_FPS``           | ``60``                  | The number of times the       |
|                         |                         | background is updated per sec.|
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+
| ``BARVA_OUTPUT_FORMAT`` | ``TTY`` if ``stdout`` is| The format of output.         |
|                         | a tty, ``HEX`` otherwise|                               |
|                         |                         | * ``TTY``: change the         |
|                         |                         |   background of the terminal. |
|                         |                         | * ``HEX``: output the color in|
|                         |                         |   hex, one per line.          |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------+

=======
Scripts
=======

All scripts in `scripts/` (except `pa-get-default-monitor.sh`)
expect output of `barva` to be piped into them e.g `barva | bspwm-borders.sh`.
If you have got `barva` from AUR, the scripts are located in `/usr/share/barva/`.

--------------
to-all-ttys.sh
--------------

Pulses the backgrounds of all terminals found in `/dev/pts/`. Consider using this
script instead of running multiple `barva` instances: it will save you some CPU time.

----------------
bspwm-borders.sh
----------------

Pulses the window borders of windows under BSPWM.

===============
Tips and tricks
===============

----------
Compositor
----------

If you use "raw" Xorg without a DE, consider running a compositor like ``picom`` or
``compton``. It eliminates tearing, thus making ``barva`` smoother.

---
FPS
---

The CPU usage of ``barva`` is roughly proportional to the value of ``BARVA_FPS``.
Therefore, lowering the value is the first thing to try to improve performance
(please report such cases, ``barva`` is supposed to be reasonably fast *everywhere*).

If you have a high refresh-rate monitor, you may try making ``BARVA_FPS`` bigger:
the appearance may improve (at the cost of CPU cycles, though).

-----
Pywal
-----

Pywal generates a nice ``~/.cache/wal/colors.sh`` file that you may use to set
the colors used by ``barva``

.. code-block:: bash

    source ~/.cache/wal/colors.sh  
    export BARVA_BG=$background BARVA_TARGET=$foreground
    barva &

---
Vim
---

To let ``barva`` pulse the background of Vim, use a colorscheme that doesn't change
the default terminal background color e.g ``peachpuff``.
``termguicolors`` (NeoVim) must be off, too.
